docs/setup/operation/upgrading.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Manual Zeppelin version upgrade procedure"
description: "This document will guide you through a procedure of manual upgrade your Apache Zeppelin instance to a newer version. Apache Zeppelin keeps backward compatibility for the notebook file format."
group: setup/operation 
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Manual upgrade procedure for Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

Basically, newer version of Zeppelin works with previous version notebook directory and configurations.
So, copying `notebook` and `conf` directory should be enough.

## Instructions
1. Stop Zeppelin: `bin/zeppelin-daemon.sh stop`
2. Copy your `notebook` and `conf` directory into a backup directory
3. Download newer version of Zeppelin and Install. See [Install Guide](../../quickstart/install.html#install).
4. Copy backup `notebook` and `conf` directory into newer version of Zeppelin `notebook` and `conf` directory
5. Start Zeppelin:  `bin/zeppelin-daemon.sh start`

## Migration Guide

### Breaking changes in 0.8.x

From 0.8, Zeppelin has a new type of permission - [Runners](http://zeppelin.apache.org/docs/0.8.0/setup/security/notebook_authorization.html#authorization-setting)

As Runners list is empty in note so everybody can view note although Readers list is not empty. 
To set all your "writers" to "runners":
1. Copy `notebook` and `conf` directories to 0.8.0,
2. Move directory **docs/assets/themes/zeppelin/note/FixReaders** to new `notebook` directory,
3. Start the new Zeppelin and run note **System/Migrate from 0.7**.


### Upgrading from Zeppelin 0.7 to 0.8

 - From 0.8, we recommend to use `PYSPARK_PYTHON` and `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON` instead of `zeppelin.pyspark.python` as `zeppelin.pyspark.python` only effects driver. You can use `PYSPARK_PYTHON` and `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON` as using them in spark.
 - From 0.8, depending on your device, the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl-L` or `Command-L` which goes to the line somewhere user wants is not supported. 
 
### Upgrading from Zeppelin 0.6 to 0.7

 - From 0.7, we don't use `ZEPPELIN_JAVA_OPTS` as default value of `ZEPPELIN_INTP_JAVA_OPTS` and also the same for `ZEPPELIN_MEM`/`ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM`. If user want to configure the jvm opts of interpreter process, please set `ZEPPELIN_INTP_JAVA_OPTS` and `ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM` explicitly. If you don't set `ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM`, Zeppelin will set it to `-Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m` by default.
 - Mapping from `%jdbc(prefix)` to `%prefix` is no longer available. Instead, you can use %[interpreter alias] with multiple interpreter setttings on GUI.
 - Usage of `ZEPPELIN_PORT` is not supported in ssl mode. Instead use `ZEPPELIN_SSL_PORT` to configure the ssl port. Value from `ZEPPELIN_PORT` is used only when `ZEPPELIN_SSL` is set to `false`.
 - The support on Spark 1.1.x to 1.3.x is deprecated.
 - From 0.7, we uses `pegdown` as the `markdown.parser.type` option for the `%md` interpreter. Rendered markdown might be different from what you expected
 - From 0.7 note.json format has been changed to support multiple outputs in a paragraph. Zeppelin will automatically convert old format to new format. 0.6 or lower version can read new note.json format but output will not be displayed. For the detail, see [ZEPPELIN-212](http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-212) and [pull request](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/1658).
 - From 0.7 note storage layer will utilize `GitNotebookRepo` by default instead of `VFSNotebookRepo` storage layer, which is an extension of latter one with versioning capabilities on top of it.

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-4166] Change default binding address to 127.0.0.1 (previously 0.0.0.0)
This PR changes default Zeppelin server binding address from `0.0.0.0` to `127.0.0.1`.
Also update related configuration templates and document.

mprovement

https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-4166

Build and run Zeppelin server with default configuration and see if default port is listening in address 127.0.0.1 instead of 0.0.0.0 (netstat -na | grep 8080)

* Does the licenses files need update? no
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? yes

Author: Lee moon soo <moon@apache.org>

Closes #3450 from Leemoonsoo/ZEPPELIN-4166 and squashes the following commits:

54dd81237 [Lee moon soo] update upgrade to guide default bind address change
41741d282 [Lee moon soo] update doc
34e2ca8f7 [Lee moon soo] update configuration templates
18aeb8b06 [Lee moon soo] bind 127.0.0.1 instead of 0.0.0.0 by default

(cherry picked from commit 7d7628eab8559093b37b2ae05a9f262ca75b3d56)
Signed-off-by: Lee moon soo <moon@apache.org>

docs/setup/operation/upgrading.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Manual Zeppelin version upgrade procedure"
description: "This document will guide you through a procedure of manual upgrade your Apache Zeppelin instance to a newer version. Apache Zeppelin keeps backward compatibility for the notebook file format."
group: setup/operation 
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Manual upgrade procedure for Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

Basically, newer version of Zeppelin works with previous version notebook directory and configurations.
So, copying `notebook` and `conf` directory should be enough.

## Instructions
1. Stop Zeppelin: `bin/zeppelin-daemon.sh stop`
2. Copy your `notebook` and `conf` directory into a backup directory
3. Download newer version of Zeppelin and Install. See [Install Guide](../../quickstart/install.html#install).
4. Copy backup `notebook` and `conf` directory into newer version of Zeppelin `notebook` and `conf` directory
5. Start Zeppelin:  `bin/zeppelin-daemon.sh start`

## Migration Guide

### Breaking changes in 0.8.x

From 0.8, Zeppelin has a new type of permission - [Runners](http://zeppelin.apache.org/docs/0.8.0/setup/security/notebook_authorization.html#authorization-setting)

As Runners list is empty in note so everybody can view note although Readers list is not empty. 
To set all your "writers" to "runners":
1. Copy `notebook` and `conf` directories to 0.8.0,
2. Move directory **docs/assets/themes/zeppelin/note/FixReaders** to new `notebook` directory,
3. Start the new Zeppelin and run note **System/Migrate from 0.7**.

### Upgrading from Zeppelin 0.8.1 (and before) to 0.8.2 (and later)
 - From 0.8.2, Zeppelin server bind `127.0.0.1` by default instead of `0.0.0.0`. Configure `zeppelin.server.addr` property or `ZEPPELIN_ADDR` env variable to change.         

### Upgrading from Zeppelin 0.7 to 0.8

 - From 0.8, we recommend to use `PYSPARK_PYTHON` and `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON` instead of `zeppelin.pyspark.python` as `zeppelin.pyspark.python` only effects driver. You can use `PYSPARK_PYTHON` and `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON` as using them in spark.
 - From 0.8, depending on your device, the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl-L` or `Command-L` which goes to the line somewhere user wants is not supported. 
 
### Upgrading from Zeppelin 0.6 to 0.7

 - From 0.7, we don't use `ZEPPELIN_JAVA_OPTS` as default value of `ZEPPELIN_INTP_JAVA_OPTS` and also the same for `ZEPPELIN_MEM`/`ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM`. If user want to configure the jvm opts of interpreter process, please set `ZEPPELIN_INTP_JAVA_OPTS` and `ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM` explicitly. If you don't set `ZEPPELIN_INTP_MEM`, Zeppelin will set it to `-Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m` by default.
 - Mapping from `%jdbc(prefix)` to `%prefix` is no longer available. Instead, you can use %[interpreter alias] with multiple interpreter setttings on GUI.
 - Usage of `ZEPPELIN_PORT` is not supported in ssl mode. Instead use `ZEPPELIN_SSL_PORT` to configure the ssl port. Value from `ZEPPELIN_PORT` is used only when `ZEPPELIN_SSL` is set to `false`.
 - The support on Spark 1.1.x to 1.3.x is deprecated.
 - From 0.7, we uses `pegdown` as the `markdown.parser.type` option for the `%md` interpreter. Rendered markdown might be different from what you expected
 - From 0.7 note.json format has been changed to support multiple outputs in a paragraph. Zeppelin will automatically convert old format to new format. 0.6 or lower version can read new note.json format but output will not be displayed. For the detail, see [ZEPPELIN-212](http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-212) and [pull request](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/1658).
 - From 0.7 note storage layer will utilize `GitNotebookRepo` by default instead of `VFSNotebookRepo` storage layer, which is an extension of latter one with versioning capabilities on top of it.
