docs/manual/dynamicform.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Dynamic Form in Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Apache Zeppelin dynamically creates input forms. Depending on language backend, there're two different ways to create dynamic form."
group: manual
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Dynamic Form

<div id="toc"></div>

Apache Zeppelin dynamically creates input forms. Depending on language backend, there're two different ways to create dynamic form.
Custom language backend can select which type of form creation it wants to use.

## Using form Templates

This mode creates form using simple template language. It's simple and easy to use. For example Markdown, Shell, Spark SQL language backend uses it.

### Text input form

To create text input form, use `${formName}` templates.

for example

<img class="img-responsive" src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input.png" width="450px" />


Also you can provide default value, using `${formName=defaultValue}`.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_default.png" />


### Select form

To create select form, use `${formName=defaultValue,option1|option2...}`

for example

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select.png" />

Also you can separate option's display name and value, using `${formName=defaultValue,option1(DisplayName)|option2(DisplayName)...}`

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select_displayname.png" />

### Checkbox form

For multi-selection, you can create a checkbox form using `${checkbox:formName=defaultValue1|defaultValue2...,option1|option2...}`. The variable will be substituted by a comma-separated string based on the selected items. For example:

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox.png">

Besides, you can specify the delimiter using `${checkbox(delimiter):formName=...}`:

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox_delimiter.png">

## Creates Programmatically

Some language backend uses programmatic way to create form. For example [ZeppelinContext](../interpreter/spark.html#zeppelincontext) provides form creation API

Here're some examples.

### Text input form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.input("name"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.input("name"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_prog.png" />

### Text input form with default value
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.input("name", "sun")) 
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.input("name", "sun"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_default_prog.png" />

### Select form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.select("day", Seq(("1","mon"),
                                    ("2","tue"),
                                    ("3","wed"),
                                    ("4","thurs"),
                                    ("5","fri"),
                                    ("6","sat"),
                                    ("7","sun"))))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.select("day", [("1","mon"),
                                ("2","tue"),
                                ("3","wed"),
                                ("4","thurs"),
                                ("5","fri"),
                                ("6","sat"),
                                ("7","sun")]))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select_prog.png" />

#### Checkbox form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
val options = Seq(("apple","Apple"), ("banana","Banana"), ("orange","Orange"))
println("Hello "+z.checkbox("fruit", options).mkString(" and "))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
options = [("apple","Apple"), ("banana","Banana"), ("orange","Orange")]
print("Hello "+ " and ".join(z.checkbox("fruit", options, ["apple"])))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox_prog.png" />

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-2000] Run paragraph on enter when select dynamic form value changed
### What is this PR for?
Run paragraph on enter when select dynamic form value changed to make paragraph runnable in report mode.

### What type of PR is it?
Bug Fix | Hot Fix

### What is the Jira issue?
[ZEPPELIN-2000](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-2000)

### How should this be tested?
1. Go to `Zeppelin Tutorial/Basic Features (Spark)` notebook
2. Change view mode to `report`.
3. Change selected value from `married` to `single` in 5th paragraph and hit enter.
4. See if paragraph runs

### Screenshots (if appropriate)
![jan-23-2017 14-14-05](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8503346/22192310/460d713c-e176-11e6-96d4-96d25eb029c0.gif)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? no
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? yes. docs update included.

Author: Mina Lee <minalee@apache.org>

Closes #1932 from minahlee/ZEPPELIN-2000 and squashes the following commits:

a9f02d2 [Mina Lee] Update docs
66b513c [Mina Lee] Run paragraph onEnter when select value changed

docs/manual/dynamicform.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Dynamic Form in Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Apache Zeppelin dynamically creates input forms. Depending on language backend, there're two different ways to create dynamic form."
group: manual
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Dynamic Form

<div id="toc"></div>

Apache Zeppelin dynamically creates input forms. Depending on language backend, there're two different ways to create dynamic form.
Custom language backend can select which type of form creation it wants to use.

## Using form Templates

This mode creates form using simple template language. It's simple and easy to use. For example Markdown, Shell, Spark SQL language backend uses it.

### Text input form

To create text input form, use `${formName}` templates.

for example

<img class="img-responsive" src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input.png" width="450px" />


Also you can provide default value, using `${formName=defaultValue}`.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_default.png" />


### Select form

To create select form, use `${formName=defaultValue,option1|option2...}`

for example

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select.png" />

Also you can separate option's display name and value, using `${formName=defaultValue,option1(DisplayName)|option2(DisplayName)...}`

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select_displayname.png" />

Hit enter after selecting option to run the paragraph with new value.

### Checkbox form

For multi-selection, you can create a checkbox form using `${checkbox:formName=defaultValue1|defaultValue2...,option1|option2...}`. The variable will be substituted by a comma-separated string based on the selected items. For example:

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox.png">

Besides, you can specify the delimiter using `${checkbox(delimiter):formName=...}`:

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox_delimiter.png">

## Creates Programmatically

Some language backend uses programmatic way to create form. For example [ZeppelinContext](../interpreter/spark.html#zeppelincontext) provides form creation API

Here're some examples.

### Text input form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.input("name"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.input("name"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_prog.png" />

### Text input form with default value
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.input("name", "sun")) 
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.input("name", "sun"))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_input_default_prog.png" />

### Select form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
println("Hello "+z.select("day", Seq(("1","mon"),
                                    ("2","tue"),
                                    ("3","wed"),
                                    ("4","thurs"),
                                    ("5","fri"),
                                    ("6","sat"),
                                    ("7","sun"))))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
print("Hello "+z.select("day", [("1","mon"),
                                ("2","tue"),
                                ("3","wed"),
                                ("4","thurs"),
                                ("5","fri"),
                                ("6","sat"),
                                ("7","sun")]))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_select_prog.png" />

#### Checkbox form
<div class="codetabs">
    <div data-lang="scala" markdown="1">

{% highlight scala %}
%spark
val options = Seq(("apple","Apple"), ("banana","Banana"), ("orange","Orange"))
println("Hello "+z.checkbox("fruit", options).mkString(" and "))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
    <div data-lang="python" markdown="1">

{% highlight python %}
%pyspark
options = [("apple","Apple"), ("banana","Banana"), ("orange","Orange")]
print("Hello "+ " and ".join(z.checkbox("fruit", options, ["apple"])))
{% endhighlight %}

    </div>
</div>
<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/form_checkbox_prog.png" />
