docs/quickstart/python_with_zeppelin.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Python with Zeppelin"
description: ""
group: quickstart
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Python support in Zeppelin 

<div id="toc"></div>

<br/>

The following guides explain how to use Apache Zeppelin that enables you to write in Python:

- supports flexible python environments using [conda](../interpreter/python.html#conda), [docker](../interpreter/python.html#docker)  
- can query using [PandasSQL](../interpreter/python.html#sql-over-pandas-dataframes)
- also, provides [PySpark](../interpreter/spark.html)
- with [matplotlib integration](../interpreter/python.html#matplotlib-integration)
- support [ipython](../interpreter/python.html#ipython-interpreter-pythonipython-recommended) 
- can create results including **UI widgets** using [Dynamic Form](../interpreter/python.html#using-zeppelin-dynamic-forms)

<br/>

For the further information about Spark support in Zeppelin, please check 

- [Python Interpreter](../interpreter/python.html)

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-5483] Update spark doc
### What is this PR for?

* Update spark doc
* Other docs like install.md are updated in this PR as well
* Add one new tutorial note for how to run pyspark with customized python runtime in yarn

### What type of PR is it?
[Documentation ]

### Todos
* [ ] - Task

### What is the Jira issue?
* https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-5483

### How should this be tested?
* no tests needed

### Screenshots (if appropriate)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? no
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? no

Author: Jeff Zhang <zjffdu@apache.org>

Closes #4203 from zjffdu/ZEPPELIN-5483 and squashes the following commits:

42b6213d47 [Jeff Zhang] [ZEPPELIN-5483] Update spark doc

docs/quickstart/python_with_zeppelin.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Python with Zeppelin"
description: ""
group: quickstart
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Python support in Zeppelin 

<div id="toc"></div>

<br/>

The following guides explain how to use Apache Zeppelin that enables you to write in Python:

- supports [vanilla python](../interpreter/python.html#vanilla-python-interpreter-python) and [ipython](../interpreter/python.html#ipython-interpreter-pythonipython-recommended)
- supports flexible python environments using [conda](../interpreter/python.html#conda), [docker](../interpreter/python.html#docker)  
- can query using [PandasSQL](../interpreter/python.html#sql-over-pandas-dataframes)
- also, provides [PySpark](../interpreter/spark.html)
- [run python interpreter in yarn cluster](../interpreter/python.html#run-python-in-yarn-cluster) with customized conda python environment.
- with [matplotlib integration](../interpreter/python.html#matplotlib-integration)
- can create results including **UI widgets** using [Dynamic Form](../interpreter/python.html#using-zeppelin-dynamic-forms)

<br/>

For the further information about Python support in Zeppelin, please check 

- [Python Interpreter](../interpreter/python.html)
