docs/interpreter/flink.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Flink Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Apache Flink is an open source platform for distributed stream and batch data processing."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Flink interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview
[Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org) is an open source platform for distributed stream and batch data processing. Flink’s core is a streaming dataflow engine that provides data distribution, communication, and fault tolerance for distributed computations over data streams. Flink also builds batch processing on top of the streaming engine, overlaying native iteration support, managed memory, and program optimization.

In Zeppelin 0.9, we refactor the Flink interpreter in Zeppelin to support the latest version of Flink. **Only Flink 1.10+ is supported, old version of flink won't work.**
Apache Flink is supported in Zeppelin with Flink interpreter group which consists of below five interpreters.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Class</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink</td>
    <td>FlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Creates ExecutionEnvironment/StreamExecutionEnvironment/BatchTableEnvironment/StreamTableEnvironment and provides a Scala environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.pyflink</td>
    <td>PyFlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a python environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.ipyflink</td>
    <td>IPyFlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides an ipython environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.ssql</td>
    <td>FlinkStreamSqlInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a stream sql environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.bsql</td>
    <td>FlinkBatchSqlInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a batch sql environment</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Prerequisites

* Download Flink 1.10 for scala 2.11 (Only scala-2.11 is supported, scala-2.12 is not supported yet in Zeppelin)

## Configuration
The Flink interpreter can be configured with properties provided by Zeppelin (as following table).
You can also add and set other flink properties which are not listed in the table. For a list of additional properties, refer to [Flink Available Properties](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-master/ops/config.html).
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`FLINK_HOME`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of flink installation. It is must be specified, otherwise you can not use flink in Zeppelin</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`HADOOP_CONF_DIR`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of hadoop conf, this is must be set if running in yarn mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`HIVE_CONF_DIR`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of hive conf, this is must be set if you want to connect to hive metastore</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.mode</td>
    <td>local</td>
    <td>Execution mode of flink, e.g. local | yarn | remote</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.remote.host</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Host name of running JobManager. Only used for remote mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.remote.port</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Port of running JobManager. Only used for remote mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.jm.memory</td>
    <td>1024</td>
    <td>Total number of memory(mb) of JobManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.tm.memory</td>
    <td>1024</td>
    <td>Total number of memory(mb) of TaskManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.tm.slot</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>Number of slot per TaskManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>local.number-taskmanager</td>
    <td>4</td>
    <td>Total number of TaskManagers in local mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.yarn.appName</td>
    <td>Zeppelin Flink Session</td>
    <td>Yarn app name</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.yarn.queue</td>
    <td>default</td>
    <td>queue name of yarn app</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.webui.yarn.useProxy</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>whether use yarn proxy url as flink weburl, e.g. http://resource-manager:8088/proxy/application_1583396598068_0004</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.webui.yarn.address</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Set this value only when your yarn address is mapped to some other address, e.g. some cloud vender will map `http://resource-manager:8088` to `https://xxx-yarn.yy.cn/gateway/kkk/yarn`</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.udf.jars</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Flink udf jars (comma separated), zeppelin will register udf in this jar automatically for user. These udf jars could be either local files or hdfs files if you have hadoop installed. The udf name is the class name.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.udf.jars.packages</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Packages (comma separated) that would be searched for the udf defined in `flink.udf.jars`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.jars</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Additional user jars (comma separated), these jars could be either local files or hdfs files if you have hadoop installed.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.packages</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Additional user packages (comma separated), e.g. org.apache.flink:flink-connector-kafka_2.11:1.10,org.apache.flink:flink-connector-kafka-base_2.11:1.10.0,org.apache.flink:flink-json:1.10.0</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.concurrentBatchSql.max</td>
    <td>10</td>
    <td>Max concurrent sql of Batch Sql (`%flink.bsql`)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.concurrentStreamSql.max</td>
    <td>10</td>
    <td>Max concurrent sql of Stream Sql (`%flink.ssql`)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.pyflink.python</td>
    <td>python</td>
    <td>Python binary executable for PyFlink</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>table.exec.resource.default-parallelism</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>Default parallelism for flink sql job</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.scala.color</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether display scala shell output in colorful format</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.enableHive</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Whether enable hive</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.hive.version</td>
    <td>2.3.4</td>
    <td>Hive version that you would like to connect</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.module.enableHive</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Whether enable hive module, hive udf take precedence over flink udf if hive module is enabled.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.maxResult</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>max number of row returned by sql interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`flink.interpreter.close.shutdown_cluster`</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether shutdown application when closing interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`zeppelin.interpreter.close.cancel_job`</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether cancel flink job when closing interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`zeppelin.flink.job.check_interval`</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>Check interval (in milliseconds) to check flink job progress</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## StreamExecutionEnvironment, ExecutionEnvironment, StreamTableEnvironment, BatchTableEnvironment

Zeppelin will create 6 variables as flink scala (`%flink`) entry point:

* `senv`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `benv`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `stenv`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `btenv`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `stenv_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `btenv_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

And will create 6 variables as pyflink (`%flink.pyflink` or `%flink.ipyflink`) entry point:

* `s_env`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `b_env`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `st_env`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `bt_env`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `st_env_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `bt_env_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

## Blink/Flink Planner

There're 2 planners supported by Flink's table api: `flink` & `blink`.

* If you want to use DataSet api, and convert it to flink table then please use flink planner (`btenv_2` and `stenv_2`).
* In other cases, we would always recommend you to use `blink` planner. This is also what flink batch/streaming sql interpreter use (`%flink.bsql` & `%flink.ssql`)

Check this [page](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/common.html#main-differences-between-the-two-planners) for the difference between flink planner and blink planner.


## Execution mode (Local/Remote/Yarn)

Flink in Zeppelin supports 3 execution modes (`flink.execution.mode`):

* Local
* Remote
* Yarn

### Run Flink in Local Mode

Running Flink in Local mode will start a MiniCluster in local JVM. By default, the local MiniCluster will use port 8081, so make sure this port is available in your machine,
otherwise you can configure `rest.port` to specify another port. You can also specify `local.number-taskmanager` and `flink.tm.slot` to customize the number of TM and number of slots per TM, 
because by default it is only 4 TM with 1 Slots which may not be enough for some cases.

### Run Flink in Remote Mode

Running Flink in remote mode will connect to a existing flink cluster which could be standalone cluster or yarn session cluster. Besides specifying `flink.execution.mode` to be `remote`. You also need to specify
`flink.execution.remote.host` and `flink.execution.remote.port` to point to flink job manager.

### Run Flink in Yarn Mode

In order to run flink in Yarn mode, you need to make the following settings:

* Set `flink.execution.mode` to `yarn`
* Set `HADOOP_CONF_DIR` in flink's interpreter setting.
* Make sure `hadoop` command is on your PATH. Because internally flink will call command `hadoop classpath` and load all the hadoop related jars in the flink interpreter process


## How to use Hive

In order to use Hive in Flink, you have to make the following setting.

* Set `zeppelin.flink.enableHive` to be true
* Set `zeppelin.flink.hive.version` to be the hive version you are using.
* Set `HIVE_CONF_DIR` to be the location where `hive-site.xml` is located. Make sure hive metastore is started and you have configured `hive.metastore.uris` in `hive-site.xml`
* Copy the following dependencies to the lib folder of flink installation. 
    * flink-connector-hive_2.11–1.10.0.jar
    * flink-hadoop-compatibility_2.11–1.10.0.jar
    * hive-exec-2.x.jar (for hive 1.x, you need to copy hive-exec-1.x.jar, hive-metastore-1.x.jar, libfb303–0.9.2.jar and libthrift-0.9.2.jar)


## Flink Batch SQL

`%flink.bsql` is used for flink's batch sql. You can type `help` to get all the available commands. 
It supports all the flink sql, including DML/DDL/DQL.

* Use `insert into` statement for batch ETL
* Use `select` statement for batch data analytics 

## Flink Streaming SQL

`%flink.ssql` is used for flink's streaming sql. You just type `help` to get all the available commands. 
It supports all the flink sql, including DML/DDL/DQL.

* Use `insert into` statement for streaming ETL
* Use `select` statement for streaming data analytics

## Streaming Data Visualization

Zeppelin supports 3 types of streaming data analytics:
* Single
* Update
* Append

### type=single
Single mode is for the case when the result of sql statement is always one row, such as the following example. The output format is HTML, 
and you can specify paragraph local property `template` for the final output content template. 
And you can use `{i}` as placeholder for the ith column of result.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_single_mode.gif)
 </center>

### type=update
Update mode is suitable for the case when the output is more than one rows, and always will be updated continuously. 
Here’s one example where we use group by.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_update_mode.gif)
 </center>

### type=append
Append mode is suitable for the scenario where output data is always appended. E.g. the following example which use tumble window.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_append_mode.gif)
 </center>
 
## Flink UDF

You can use Flink scala UDF or Python UDF in sql. UDF for batch and streaming sql is the same. Here're 2 examples.

* Scala UDF

```scala
%flink

class ScalaUpper extends ScalarFunction {
  def eval(str: String) = str.toUpperCase
}
btenv.registerFunction("scala_upper", new ScalaUpper())

```

* Python UDF

```python

%flink.pyflink

class PythonUpper(ScalarFunction):
  def eval(self, s):
    return s.upper()

bt_env.register_function("python_upper", udf(PythonUpper(), DataTypes.STRING(), DataTypes.STRING()))

```

Zeppelin only supports scala and python for flink interpreter, if you want to write java udf or the udf is pretty complicated which make it not suitable to write in Zeppelin,
then you can write the udf in IDE and build a udf jar.
In Zeppelin you just need to specify `flink.udf.jars` to this jar, and flink
interpreter will detect all the udfs in this jar and register all the udfs to TableEnvironment, the udf name is the class name.

## PyFlink(%flink.pyflink)
In order to use PyFlink in Zeppelin, you just need to do the following configuration.
* Install apache-flink (e.g. pip install apache-flink)
* Set `zeppelin.pyflink.python` to the python executable where apache-flink is installed in case you have multiple python installed.
* Copy flink-python_2.11–1.10.0.jar from flink opt folder to flink lib folder

And PyFlink will create 6 variables for you:

* `s_env`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `b_env`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `st_env`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `bt_env`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `st_env_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `bt_env_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

### IPython Support(%flink.ipyflink)

By default, zeppelin would use IPython in `%flink.pyflink` when IPython is available, Otherwise it would fall back to the original python implementation.
For the IPython features, you can refer doc[Python Interpreter](python.html)

## ZeppelinContext
Zeppelin automatically injects `ZeppelinContext` as variable `z` in your Scala/Python environment. `ZeppelinContext` provides some additional functions and utilities.
See [Zeppelin-Context](../usage/other_features/zeppelin_context.html) for more details. You can use `z` to display both flink DataSet and batch/stream table.

* Display DataSet
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_dataset.png)
 </center>
 
* Display Batch Table
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_batch_table.png)
 </center>
* Display Stream Table
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_stream_table.gif)
 </center>

## Paragraph local properties

In the section of `Streaming Data Visualization`, we demonstrate the different visualization type via paragraph local properties: `type`. 
In this section, we will list and explain all the supported local properties in flink interpreter.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>type</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql to specify the streaming visualization type (single, update, append)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>refreshInterval</td>
    <td>3000</td>
    <td>Used in `%flink.ssql` to specify frontend refresh interval for streaming data visualization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>template</td>
    <td>{0}</td>
    <td>Used in `%flink.ssql` to specify html template for `single` type of streaming data visualization, And you can use `{i}` as placeholder for the {i}th column of the result.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>parallelism</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql & %flink.bsql to specify the flink sql job parallelism</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxParallelism</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql & %flink.bsql to specify the flink sql job max parallelism in case you want to change parallelism later. For more details, refer this [link](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/parallel.html#setting-the-maximum-parallelism) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>savepointDir</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>If you specify it, then when you cancel your flink job in Zeppelin, it would also do savepoint and store state in this directory. And when you resume your job, it would resume from this savepoint.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>execution.savepoint.path</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>When you resume your job, it would resume from this savepoint path.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resumeFromSavepoint</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Resume flink job from savepoint if you specify savepointDir.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resumeFromLatestCheckpoint</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Resume flink job from latest checkpoint if you enable checkpoint.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>runAsOne</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>All the insert into sql will run in a single flink job if this is true.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Tutorial Notes

Zeppelin is shipped with several Flink tutorial notes which may be helpful for you. You check more features in the tutorial notes.

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-5229] - bump flink 1.10 minor version
### What is this PR for?
Bumping flink minor version, fixing minor flink doc typos

### What type of PR is it?
Improvement

### Todos
* [ ] - Task

### What is the Jira issue?
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-5229

### How should this be tested?
Automation and builds

### Screenshots (if appropriate)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? - no
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? - no
* Does this needs documentation? - no

Author: OmriK <omri.keefe@dynamicyield.com>

Closes #4052 from omrisk/ZEPPELIN-5229-upgrade-flink-version and squashes the following commits:

7e883818d [OmriK] bump flink 1.10 minor version in integration tests
d86c374cb [OmriK] Minor readme fixes for flink docs
8bc7d7a18 [OmriK] bump flink 1.10 minor version

(cherry picked from commit 4a25272d822c6d2de09fbcb405e073f35dabf5be)
Signed-off-by: Jeff Zhang <zjffdu@apache.org>

docs/interpreter/flink.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Flink Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Apache Flink is an open source platform for distributed stream and batch data processing."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Flink interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview
[Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org) is an open source platform for distributed stream and batch data processing. Flink’s core is a streaming dataflow engine that provides data distribution, communication, and fault tolerance for distributed computations over data streams. Flink also builds batch processing on top of the streaming engine, overlaying native iteration support, managed memory, and program optimization.

In Zeppelin 0.9, we refactor the Flink interpreter in Zeppelin to support the latest version of Flink. **Only Flink 1.10+ is supported, old versions of flink won't work.**
Apache Flink is supported in Zeppelin with the Flink interpreter group which consists of the five interpreters listed below.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Class</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink</td>
    <td>FlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Creates ExecutionEnvironment/StreamExecutionEnvironment/BatchTableEnvironment/StreamTableEnvironment and provides a Scala environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.pyflink</td>
    <td>PyFlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a python environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.ipyflink</td>
    <td>IPyFlinkInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides an ipython environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.ssql</td>
    <td>FlinkStreamSqlInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a stream sql environment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>%flink.bsql</td>
    <td>FlinkBatchSqlInterpreter</td>
    <td>Provides a batch sql environment</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Prerequisites

* Download Flink 1.10 for scala 2.11 (Only scala-2.11 is supported, scala-2.12 is not supported yet in Zeppelin)

## Configuration
The Flink interpreter can be configured with properties provided by Zeppelin (as following table).
You can also add and set other flink properties which are not listed in the table. For a list of additional properties, refer to [Flink Available Properties](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-master/ops/config.html).
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`FLINK_HOME`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of flink installation. It is must be specified, otherwise you can not use flink in Zeppelin</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`HADOOP_CONF_DIR`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of hadoop conf, this is must be set if running in yarn mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`HIVE_CONF_DIR`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Location of hive conf, this is must be set if you want to connect to hive metastore</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.mode</td>
    <td>local</td>
    <td>Execution mode of flink, e.g. local | yarn | remote</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.remote.host</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Host name of running JobManager. Only used for remote mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.remote.port</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Port of running JobManager. Only used for remote mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.jm.memory</td>
    <td>1024</td>
    <td>Total number of memory(mb) of JobManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.tm.memory</td>
    <td>1024</td>
    <td>Total number of memory(mb) of TaskManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.tm.slot</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>Number of slot per TaskManager</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>local.number-taskmanager</td>
    <td>4</td>
    <td>Total number of TaskManagers in local mode</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.yarn.appName</td>
    <td>Zeppelin Flink Session</td>
    <td>Yarn app name</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.yarn.queue</td>
    <td>default</td>
    <td>queue name of yarn app</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.webui.yarn.useProxy</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>whether use yarn proxy url as flink weburl, e.g. http://resource-manager:8088/proxy/application_1583396598068_0004</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.webui.yarn.address</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Set this value only when your yarn address is mapped to some other address, e.g. some cloud vender will map `http://resource-manager:8088` to `https://xxx-yarn.yy.cn/gateway/kkk/yarn`</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.udf.jars</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Flink udf jars (comma separated), zeppelin will register udf in this jar automatically for user. These udf jars could be either local files or hdfs files if you have hadoop installed. The udf name is the class name.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.udf.jars.packages</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Packages (comma separated) that would be searched for the udf defined in `flink.udf.jars`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.jars</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Additional user jars (comma separated), these jars could be either local files or hdfs files if you have hadoop installed.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>flink.execution.packages</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Additional user packages (comma separated), e.g. org.apache.flink:flink-connector-kafka_2.11:1.10,org.apache.flink:flink-connector-kafka-base_2.11:1.10.0,org.apache.flink:flink-json:1.10.0</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.concurrentBatchSql.max</td>
    <td>10</td>
    <td>Max concurrent sql of Batch Sql (`%flink.bsql`)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.concurrentStreamSql.max</td>
    <td>10</td>
    <td>Max concurrent sql of Stream Sql (`%flink.ssql`)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.pyflink.python</td>
    <td>python</td>
    <td>Python binary executable for PyFlink</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>table.exec.resource.default-parallelism</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>Default parallelism for flink sql job</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.scala.color</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether display scala shell output in colorful format</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.enableHive</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Whether enable hive</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.hive.version</td>
    <td>2.3.4</td>
    <td>Hive version that you would like to connect</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.module.enableHive</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Whether enable hive module, hive udf take precedence over flink udf if hive module is enabled.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.flink.maxResult</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>max number of row returned by sql interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`flink.interpreter.close.shutdown_cluster`</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether shutdown application when closing interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`zeppelin.interpreter.close.cancel_job`</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Whether cancel flink job when closing interpreter</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`zeppelin.flink.job.check_interval`</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>Check interval (in milliseconds) to check flink job progress</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## StreamExecutionEnvironment, ExecutionEnvironment, StreamTableEnvironment, BatchTableEnvironment

Zeppelin will create 6 variables as flink scala (`%flink`) entry point:

* `senv`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `benv`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `stenv`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `btenv`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `stenv_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `btenv_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

And will create 6 variables as pyflink (`%flink.pyflink` or `%flink.ipyflink`) entry point:

* `s_env`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `b_env`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `st_env`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `bt_env`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `st_env_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `bt_env_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

## Blink/Flink Planner

There are 2 planners supported by Flink's table api: `flink` & `blink`.

* If you want to use DataSet api, and convert it to flink table then please use flink planner (`btenv_2` and `stenv_2`).
* In other cases, we would always recommend you to use `blink` planner. This is also what flink batch/streaming sql interpreter use (`%flink.bsql` & `%flink.ssql`)

Check this [page](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/common.html#main-differences-between-the-two-planners) for the difference between flink planner and blink planner.


## Execution mode (Local/Remote/Yarn)

Flink in Zeppelin supports 3 execution modes (`flink.execution.mode`):

* Local
* Remote
* Yarn

### Run Flink in Local Mode

Running Flink in Local mode will start a MiniCluster in local JVM. By default, the local MiniCluster will use port 8081, so make sure this port is available in your machine,
otherwise you can configure `rest.port` to specify another port. You can also specify `local.number-taskmanager` and `flink.tm.slot` to customize the number of TM and number of slots per TM, 
because by default it is only 4 TM with 1 Slots which may not be enough for some cases.

### Run Flink in Remote Mode

Running Flink in remote mode will connect to an existing flink cluster which could be standalone cluster or yarn session cluster. Besides specifying `flink.execution.mode` to be `remote`. You also need to specify
`flink.execution.remote.host` and `flink.execution.remote.port` to point to flink job manager.

### Run Flink in Yarn Mode

In order to run flink in Yarn mode, you need to make the following settings:

* Set `flink.execution.mode` to `yarn`
* Set `HADOOP_CONF_DIR` in flink's interpreter setting.
* Make sure `hadoop` command is on your PATH. Because internally flink will call command `hadoop classpath` and load all the hadoop related jars in the flink interpreter process


## How to use Hive

In order to use Hive in Flink, you have to make the following setting.

* Set `zeppelin.flink.enableHive` to be true
* Set `zeppelin.flink.hive.version` to be the hive version you are using.
* Set `HIVE_CONF_DIR` to be the location where `hive-site.xml` is located. Make sure hive metastore is started and you have configured `hive.metastore.uris` in `hive-site.xml`
* Copy the following dependencies to the lib folder of flink installation. 
    * flink-connector-hive_2.11–1.10.0.jar
    * flink-hadoop-compatibility_2.11–1.10.0.jar
    * hive-exec-2.x.jar (for hive 1.x, you need to copy hive-exec-1.x.jar, hive-metastore-1.x.jar, libfb303–0.9.2.jar and libthrift-0.9.2.jar)


## Flink Batch SQL

`%flink.bsql` is used for flink's batch sql. You can type `help` to get all the available commands. 
It supports all the flink sql, including DML/DDL/DQL.

* Use `insert into` statement for batch ETL
* Use `select` statement for batch data analytics 

## Flink Streaming SQL

`%flink.ssql` is used for flink's streaming sql. You just type `help` to get all the available commands. 
It supports all the flink sql, including DML/DDL/DQL.

* Use `insert into` statement for streaming ETL
* Use `select` statement for streaming data analytics

## Streaming Data Visualization

Zeppelin supports 3 types of streaming data analytics:
* Single
* Update
* Append

### type=single
Single mode is for the case when the result of sql statement is always one row, such as the following example. The output format is HTML, 
and you can specify paragraph local property `template` for the final output content template. 
And you can use `{i}` as placeholder for the ith column of result.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_single_mode.gif)
 </center>

### type=update
Update mode is suitable for the case when the output is more than one rows, and always will be updated continuously. 
Here’s one example where we use group by.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_update_mode.gif)
 </center>

### type=append
Append mode is suitable for the scenario where output data is always appended. E.g. the following example which use tumble window.

 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_append_mode.gif)
 </center>
 
## Flink UDF

You can use Flink scala UDF or Python UDF in sql. UDF for batch and streaming sql is the same. Here're 2 examples.

* Scala UDF

```scala
%flink

class ScalaUpper extends ScalarFunction {
  def eval(str: String) = str.toUpperCase
}
btenv.registerFunction("scala_upper", new ScalaUpper())

```

* Python UDF

```python

%flink.pyflink

class PythonUpper(ScalarFunction):
  def eval(self, s):
    return s.upper()

bt_env.register_function("python_upper", udf(PythonUpper(), DataTypes.STRING(), DataTypes.STRING()))

```

Zeppelin only supports scala and python for flink interpreter, if you want to write a java udf or the udf is pretty complicated which make it not suitable to write in Zeppelin,
then you can write the udf in IDE and build an udf jar.
In Zeppelin you just need to specify `flink.udf.jars` to this jar, and flink
interpreter will detect all the udfs in this jar and register all the udfs to TableEnvironment, the udf name is the class name.

## PyFlink(%flink.pyflink)
In order to use PyFlink in Zeppelin, you just need to do the following configuration.
* Install apache-flink (e.g. pip install apache-flink)
* Set `zeppelin.pyflink.python` to the python executable where apache-flink is installed in case you have multiple python installed.
* Copy flink-python_2.11–1.10.0.jar from flink opt folder to flink lib folder

And PyFlink will create 6 variables for you:

* `s_env`    (StreamExecutionEnvironment), 
* `b_env`     (ExecutionEnvironment)
* `st_env`   (StreamTableEnvironment for blink planner) 
* `bt_env`   (BatchTableEnvironment for blink planner)
* `st_env_2`   (StreamTableEnvironment for flink planner) 
* `bt_env_2`   (BatchTableEnvironment for flink planner)

### IPython Support(%flink.ipyflink)

By default, zeppelin would use IPython in `%flink.pyflink` when IPython is available, Otherwise it would fall back to the original python implementation.
For the IPython features, you can refer doc[Python Interpreter](python.html)

## ZeppelinContext
Zeppelin automatically injects `ZeppelinContext` as variable `z` in your Scala/Python environment. `ZeppelinContext` provides some additional functions and utilities.
See [Zeppelin-Context](../usage/other_features/zeppelin_context.html) for more details. You can use `z` to display both flink DataSet and batch/stream table.

* Display DataSet
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_dataset.png)
 </center>
 
* Display Batch Table
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_batch_table.png)
 </center>
* Display Stream Table
 <center>
   ![Interactive Help]({{BASE_PATH}}/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/flink_z_stream_table.gif)
 </center>

## Paragraph local properties

In the section of `Streaming Data Visualization`, we demonstrate the different visualization type via paragraph local properties: `type`. 
In this section, we will list and explain all the supported local properties in flink interpreter.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>type</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql to specify the streaming visualization type (single, update, append)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>refreshInterval</td>
    <td>3000</td>
    <td>Used in `%flink.ssql` to specify frontend refresh interval for streaming data visualization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>template</td>
    <td>{0}</td>
    <td>Used in `%flink.ssql` to specify html template for `single` type of streaming data visualization, And you can use `{i}` as placeholder for the {i}th column of the result.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>parallelism</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql & %flink.bsql to specify the flink sql job parallelism</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxParallelism</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Used in %flink.ssql & %flink.bsql to specify the flink sql job max parallelism in case you want to change parallelism later. For more details, refer this [link](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/parallel.html#setting-the-maximum-parallelism) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>savepointDir</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>If you specify it, then when you cancel your flink job in Zeppelin, it would also do savepoint and store state in this directory. And when you resume your job, it would resume from this savepoint.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>execution.savepoint.path</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>When you resume your job, it would resume from this savepoint path.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resumeFromSavepoint</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Resume flink job from savepoint if you specify savepointDir.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resumeFromLatestCheckpoint</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Resume flink job from latest checkpoint if you enable checkpoint.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>runAsOne</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>All the insert into sql will run in a single flink job if this is true.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Tutorial Notes

Zeppelin is shipped with several Flink tutorial notes which may be helpful for you. You can check for more features in the tutorial notes.
