docs/interpreter/jdbc.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Generic JDBC Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Generic JDBC Interpreter lets you create a JDBC connection to any data source. You can use Postgres, MySql, MariaDB, Redshift, Apache Hive, Apache Phoenix, Apache Drill and Apache Tajo using JDBC interpreter."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Generic JDBC Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview

JDBC interpreter lets you create a JDBC connection to any data sources seamlessly. By now, it has been tested with:

<div class="row" style="margin: 30px auto;">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/tested_databases.png" width="300px"/>
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="http://www.postgresql.org/" target="_blank">Postgresql</a> -
      <a href="https://jdbc.postgresql.org/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank">Mysql</a> -
      <a href="https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://mariadb.org/" target="_blank">MariaDB</a> -
      <a href="https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb/about-mariadb-connector-j/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/redshift/" target="_blank">Redshift</a> -
      <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configure-jdbc-connection.html" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://hive.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Hive</a> - 
      <a href="https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://phoenix.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Phoenix</a> itself is a JDBC driver
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://drill.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Drill</a> - 
      <a href="https://drill.apache.org/docs/using-the-jdbc-driver" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="http://tajo.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Tajo</a> - 
      <a href="https://tajo.apache.org/docs/current/jdbc_driver.html" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
  </div>
</div>

If you are using other databases not in the above list, please feel free to share your use case. It would be helpful to improve the functionality of JDBC interpreter.

## Create a new JDBC Interpreter

First, click `+ Create` button at the top-right corner in the interpreter setting page.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/click_create_button.png" width="600px"/>

Fill `Interpreter name` field with whatever you want to use as the alias(e.g. mysql, mysql2, hive, redshift, and etc..). Please note that this alias will be used as `%interpreter_name` to call the interpreter in the paragraph. 
Then select `jdbc` as an `Interpreter group`. 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/select_name_and_group.png" width="200px"/>

The default driver of JDBC interpreter is set as `PostgreSQL`. It means Zeppelin includes `PostgreSQL` driver jar in itself.
So you don't need to add any dependencies(e.g. the artifact name or path for `PostgreSQL` driver jar) for `PostgreSQL` connection.
The JDBC interpreter properties are defined by default like below.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>common.max_count</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>The maximun number of SQL result to display</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.postgresql.Driver</td>
    <td>JDBC Driver Name</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>The JDBC user password</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/</td>
    <td>The URL for JDBC</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>gpadmin</td>
    <td>The JDBC user name</td>
  </tr>
</table>

If you want to connect other databases such as `Mysql`, `Redshift` and `Hive`, you need to edit the property values.
You can also use [Credential](../security/datasource_authorization.html) for JDBC authentication.
If `default.user` and `default.password` properties are deleted(using X button) for database connection in the interpreter setting page,
the JDBC interpreter will get the account information from [Credential](../security/datasource_authorization.html).

The below example is for `Mysql` connection.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/edit_properties.png" width="600px" />

The last step is **Dependency Setting**. Since Zeppelin only includes `PostgreSQL` driver jar by default, you need to add each driver's maven coordinates or JDBC driver's jar file path for the other databases.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/edit_dependencies.png" width="600px" />

That's it. You can find more JDBC connection setting examples([Mysql](#mysql), [MariaDB](#mariadb), [Redshift](#redshift), [Apache Hive](#apache-hive), [Apache Phoenix](#apache-phoenix), and [Apache Tajo](#apache-tajo)) in [this section](#examples).

## More properties
There are more JDBC interpreter properties you can specify like below.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>common.max_result</td>
    <td>Max number of SQL result to display to prevent the browser overload. This is  common properties for all connections</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.auth.type</td>
    <td>Types of authentications' methods supported are <code>SIMPLE</code>, and <code>KERBEROS</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.principal</td>
    <td>The principal name to load from the keytab</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.keytab.location</td>
    <td>The path to the keytab file</td>
  </tr>
</table>

You can also add more properties by using this [method](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/sql/DriverManager.html#getConnection%28java.lang.String,%20java.util.Properties%29).
For example, if a connection needs a schema parameter, it would have to add the property as follows:

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>name</th>
    <th>value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.schema</td>
    <td>schema_name</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Binding JDBC interpter to notebook
To bind the interpreters created in the interpreter setting page, click the gear icon at the top-right corner.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/click_interpreter_binding_button.png" width="600px" />

Select(blue) or deselect(white) the interpreter buttons depending on your use cases. 
If you need to use more than one interpreter in the notebook, activate several buttons.
Don't forget to click `Save` button, or you will face `Interpreter *** is not found` error.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/jdbc_interpreter_binding.png" width="550px" />

## How to use
### Run the paragraph with JDBC interpreter
To test whether your databases and Zeppelin are successfully connected or not, type `%jdbc_interpreter_name`(e.g. `%mysql`) at the top of the paragraph and run `show databases`.

```sql
%jdbc_interpreter_name
show databases
```
If the paragraph is `FINISHED` without any errors, a new paragraph will be automatically added after the previous one with `%jdbc_interpreter_name`.
So you don't need to type this prefix in every paragraphs' header.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/run_paragraph_with_jdbc.png" width="600px" />

### Apply Zeppelin Dynamic Forms

You can leverage [Zeppelin Dynamic Form](../manual/dynamicform.html) inside your queries. You can use both the `text input` and `select form` parametrization features.

```sql
%jdbc_interpreter_name
SELECT name, country, performer
FROM demo.performers
WHERE name='{{"{{performer=Sheryl Crow|Doof|Fanfarlo|Los Paranoia"}}}}'
```

## Examples
Here are some examples you can refer to. Including the below connectors, you can connect every databases as long as it can be configured with it's JDBC driver.

### Postgres

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/postgres_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.postgresql.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mysql_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mysql_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Postgres JDBC Driver Docs](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/documentation.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.postgresql:postgresql:9.4.1211</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.postgresql:postgresql](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.postgresql/postgresql)

### Mysql

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/mysql_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mysql_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mysql_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Mysql JDBC Driver Docs](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>mysql:mysql-connector-java:5.1.38</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: mysql:mysql-connector-java](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java)

### MariaDB

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/mariadb_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.mariadb.jdbc.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:mariadb://localhost:3306</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mariadb_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mariadb_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[MariaDB JDBC Driver Docs](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb/about-mariadb-connector-j/)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.mariadb.jdbc:mariadb-java-client:1.5.4</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.mariadb.jdbc:mariadb-java-client](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.mariadb.jdbc/mariadb-java-client)

### Redshift

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/redshift_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>com.amazon.redshift.jdbc42.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:redshift://your-redshift-instance-address.redshift.amazonaws.com:5439/your-database</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>redshift_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>redshift_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[AWS Redshift JDBC Driver Docs](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configure-jdbc-connection.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>com.amazonaws:aws-java-sdk-redshift:1.11.51</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: com.amazonaws:aws-java-sdk-redshift](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-redshift)

### Apache Hive 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/hive_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.hive.jdbc.HiveDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:hive2://localhost:10000</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>hive_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>hive_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Apache Hive 1 JDBC Driver Docs](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC)
[Apache Hive 2 JDBC Driver Docs](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.hive:hive-jdbc:0.14.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.hadoop:hadoop-common:2.6.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository : org.apache.hive:hive-jdbc](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.hive/hive-jdbc)

### Apache Phoenix

Phoenix supports `thick` and `thin` connection types:

  - [Thick client](#thick-client-connection) is faster, but must connect directly to ZooKeeper and HBase RegionServers.
  - [Thin client](#thin-client-connection) has fewer dependencies and connects through a [Phoenix Query Server](http://phoenix.apache.org/server.html) instance.

Use the appropriate `default.driver`, `default.url`, and the dependency artifact for your connection type.

#### Thick client connection

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/phoenix_thick_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix.jdbc.PhoenixDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:phoenix:localhost:2181:/hbase-unsecure</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>phoenix_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>phoenix_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-core:4.4.0-HBase-1.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-core](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.phoenix/phoenix-core)

#### Thin client connection

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/phoenix_thin_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix.queryserver.client.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:phoenix:thin:url=http://localhost:8765;serialization=PROTOBUF</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>phoenix_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>phoenix_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

##### Dependencies
 
Before Adding one of the below dependencies, check the Phoenix version first.
 
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-server-client:4.7.0-HBase-1.1</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>For Phoenix <code>4.7</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-queryserver-client:4.8.0-HBase-1.2</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>For Phoenix <code>4.8+</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-queryserver-client](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.phoenix/phoenix-queryserver-client)

### Apache Tajo

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/tajo_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.tajo.jdbc.TajoDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:tajo://localhost:26002/default</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Apache Tajo JDBC Driver Docs](https://tajo.apache.org/docs/current/jdbc_driver.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.tajo:tajo-jdbc:0.11.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.tajo:tajo-jdbc](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.tajo/tajo-jdbc)

## Bug reporting
If you find a bug using JDBC interpreter, please create a [JIRA](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN) ticket.

Commit message:

ZEPPELIN-1645: JDBC Interpreter does not commit updates
### What is this PR for?
Allow users to issue insert/update/upsert statements from Zeppelin notes

### What type of PR is it?
Improvement

### Todos
* [ ] - Task

### What is the Jira issue?
[ZEPPELIN-1645](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-1645)

### How should this be tested?
For Phoenix Interpreter:
Paragraph 1:
%jdbc
UPSERT INTO CX_TEST (ACCT_NBR, HSE_ID) VALUES ('a', 'b')

Paragraph 2:
%jdbc
select count(*) from cx_test

Result: 1

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update?
No
* Is there breaking changes for older versions?
No
* Does this needs documentation?
Yes - JDBC README updated

Author: Randy Gelhausen <rgelhau@gmail.com>

Closes #1617 from randerzander/master and squashes the following commits:

1cf1ce3 [Randy Gelhausen] Added check for connection autocommit status

docs/interpreter/jdbc.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Generic JDBC Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Generic JDBC Interpreter lets you create a JDBC connection to any data source. You can use Postgres, MySql, MariaDB, Redshift, Apache Hive, Apache Phoenix, Apache Drill and Apache Tajo using JDBC interpreter."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Generic JDBC Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview

JDBC interpreter lets you create a JDBC connection to any data sources seamlessly.

Inserts, Updates, and Upserts are applied immediately after running each statement.

By now, it has been tested with:

<div class="row" style="margin: 30px auto;">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/tested_databases.png" width="300px"/>
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="http://www.postgresql.org/" target="_blank">Postgresql</a> -
      <a href="https://jdbc.postgresql.org/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank">Mysql</a> -
      <a href="https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://mariadb.org/" target="_blank">MariaDB</a> -
      <a href="https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb/about-mariadb-connector-j/" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/redshift/" target="_blank">Redshift</a> -
      <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configure-jdbc-connection.html" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://hive.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Hive</a> - 
      <a href="https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://phoenix.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Phoenix</a> itself is a JDBC driver
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="https://drill.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Drill</a> - 
      <a href="https://drill.apache.org/docs/using-the-jdbc-driver" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
    <li style="padding-bottom: 5px; list-style: circle">
      <a href="http://tajo.apache.org/" target="_blank">Apache Tajo</a> - 
      <a href="https://tajo.apache.org/docs/current/jdbc_driver.html" target="_blank">JDBC Driver</a>
    </li>
  </div>
</div>

If you are using other databases not in the above list, please feel free to share your use case. It would be helpful to improve the functionality of JDBC interpreter.

## Create a new JDBC Interpreter

First, click `+ Create` button at the top-right corner in the interpreter setting page.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/click_create_button.png" width="600px"/>

Fill `Interpreter name` field with whatever you want to use as the alias(e.g. mysql, mysql2, hive, redshift, and etc..). Please note that this alias will be used as `%interpreter_name` to call the interpreter in the paragraph. 
Then select `jdbc` as an `Interpreter group`. 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/select_name_and_group.png" width="200px"/>

The default driver of JDBC interpreter is set as `PostgreSQL`. It means Zeppelin includes `PostgreSQL` driver jar in itself.
So you don't need to add any dependencies(e.g. the artifact name or path for `PostgreSQL` driver jar) for `PostgreSQL` connection.
The JDBC interpreter properties are defined by default like below.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>common.max_count</td>
    <td>1000</td>
    <td>The maximun number of SQL result to display</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.postgresql.Driver</td>
    <td>JDBC Driver Name</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>The JDBC user password</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/</td>
    <td>The URL for JDBC</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>gpadmin</td>
    <td>The JDBC user name</td>
  </tr>
</table>

If you want to connect other databases such as `Mysql`, `Redshift` and `Hive`, you need to edit the property values.
You can also use [Credential](../security/datasource_authorization.html) for JDBC authentication.
If `default.user` and `default.password` properties are deleted(using X button) for database connection in the interpreter setting page,
the JDBC interpreter will get the account information from [Credential](../security/datasource_authorization.html).

The below example is for `Mysql` connection.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/edit_properties.png" width="600px" />

The last step is **Dependency Setting**. Since Zeppelin only includes `PostgreSQL` driver jar by default, you need to add each driver's maven coordinates or JDBC driver's jar file path for the other databases.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/edit_dependencies.png" width="600px" />

That's it. You can find more JDBC connection setting examples([Mysql](#mysql), [MariaDB](#mariadb), [Redshift](#redshift), [Apache Hive](#apache-hive), [Apache Phoenix](#apache-phoenix), and [Apache Tajo](#apache-tajo)) in [this section](#examples).

## More properties
There are more JDBC interpreter properties you can specify like below.

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Property Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>common.max_result</td>
    <td>Max number of SQL result to display to prevent the browser overload. This is  common properties for all connections</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.auth.type</td>
    <td>Types of authentications' methods supported are <code>SIMPLE</code>, and <code>KERBEROS</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.principal</td>
    <td>The principal name to load from the keytab</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>zeppelin.jdbc.keytab.location</td>
    <td>The path to the keytab file</td>
  </tr>
</table>

You can also add more properties by using this [method](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/sql/DriverManager.html#getConnection%28java.lang.String,%20java.util.Properties%29).
For example, if a connection needs a schema parameter, it would have to add the property as follows:

<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>name</th>
    <th>value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.schema</td>
    <td>schema_name</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Binding JDBC interpter to notebook
To bind the interpreters created in the interpreter setting page, click the gear icon at the top-right corner.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/click_interpreter_binding_button.png" width="600px" />

Select(blue) or deselect(white) the interpreter buttons depending on your use cases. 
If you need to use more than one interpreter in the notebook, activate several buttons.
Don't forget to click `Save` button, or you will face `Interpreter *** is not found` error.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/jdbc_interpreter_binding.png" width="550px" />

## How to use
### Run the paragraph with JDBC interpreter
To test whether your databases and Zeppelin are successfully connected or not, type `%jdbc_interpreter_name`(e.g. `%mysql`) at the top of the paragraph and run `show databases`.

```sql
%jdbc_interpreter_name
show databases
```
If the paragraph is `FINISHED` without any errors, a new paragraph will be automatically added after the previous one with `%jdbc_interpreter_name`.
So you don't need to type this prefix in every paragraphs' header.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/run_paragraph_with_jdbc.png" width="600px" />

### Apply Zeppelin Dynamic Forms

You can leverage [Zeppelin Dynamic Form](../manual/dynamicform.html) inside your queries. You can use both the `text input` and `select form` parametrization features.

```sql
%jdbc_interpreter_name
SELECT name, country, performer
FROM demo.performers
WHERE name='{{"{{performer=Sheryl Crow|Doof|Fanfarlo|Los Paranoia"}}}}'
```

## Examples
Here are some examples you can refer to. Including the below connectors, you can connect every databases as long as it can be configured with it's JDBC driver.

### Postgres

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/postgres_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.postgresql.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mysql_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mysql_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Postgres JDBC Driver Docs](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/documentation.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.postgresql:postgresql:9.4.1211</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.postgresql:postgresql](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.postgresql/postgresql)

### Mysql

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/mysql_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mysql_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mysql_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Mysql JDBC Driver Docs](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>mysql:mysql-connector-java:5.1.38</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: mysql:mysql-connector-java](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java)

### MariaDB

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/mariadb_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.mariadb.jdbc.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:mariadb://localhost:3306</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>mariadb_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>mariadb_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[MariaDB JDBC Driver Docs](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb/about-mariadb-connector-j/)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.mariadb.jdbc:mariadb-java-client:1.5.4</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.mariadb.jdbc:mariadb-java-client](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.mariadb.jdbc/mariadb-java-client)

### Redshift

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/redshift_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>com.amazon.redshift.jdbc42.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:redshift://your-redshift-instance-address.redshift.amazonaws.com:5439/your-database</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>redshift_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>redshift_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[AWS Redshift JDBC Driver Docs](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configure-jdbc-connection.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>com.amazonaws:aws-java-sdk-redshift:1.11.51</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: com.amazonaws:aws-java-sdk-redshift](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-redshift)

### Apache Hive 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/hive_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.hive.jdbc.HiveDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:hive2://localhost:10000</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>hive_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>hive_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Apache Hive 1 JDBC Driver Docs](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC)
[Apache Hive 2 JDBC Driver Docs](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-JDBC)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.hive:hive-jdbc:0.14.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.hadoop:hadoop-common:2.6.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository : org.apache.hive:hive-jdbc](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.hive/hive-jdbc)

### Apache Phoenix

Phoenix supports `thick` and `thin` connection types:

  - [Thick client](#thick-client-connection) is faster, but must connect directly to ZooKeeper and HBase RegionServers.
  - [Thin client](#thin-client-connection) has fewer dependencies and connects through a [Phoenix Query Server](http://phoenix.apache.org/server.html) instance.

Use the appropriate `default.driver`, `default.url`, and the dependency artifact for your connection type.

#### Thick client connection

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/phoenix_thick_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix.jdbc.PhoenixDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:phoenix:localhost:2181:/hbase-unsecure</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>phoenix_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>phoenix_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-core:4.4.0-HBase-1.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-core](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.phoenix/phoenix-core)

#### Thin client connection

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/phoenix_thin_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix.queryserver.client.Driver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:phoenix:thin:url=http://localhost:8765;serialization=PROTOBUF</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.user</td>
    <td>phoenix_user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.password</td>
    <td>phoenix_password</td>
  </tr>
</table>

##### Dependencies
 
Before Adding one of the below dependencies, check the Phoenix version first.
 
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-server-client:4.7.0-HBase-1.1</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>For Phoenix <code>4.7</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-queryserver-client:4.8.0-HBase-1.2</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>For Phoenix <code>4.8+</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.phoenix:phoenix-queryserver-client](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.phoenix/phoenix-queryserver-client)

### Apache Tajo

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/tajo_setting.png" width="600px" />

##### Properties
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.driver</td>
    <td>org.apache.tajo.jdbc.TajoDriver</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>default.url</td>
    <td>jdbc:tajo://localhost:26002/default</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Apache Tajo JDBC Driver Docs](https://tajo.apache.org/docs/current/jdbc_driver.html)

##### Dependencies
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Artifact</th>
    <th>Excludes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>org.apache.tajo:tajo-jdbc:0.11.0</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

[Maven Repository: org.apache.tajo:tajo-jdbc](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.tajo/tajo-jdbc)

## Bug reporting
If you find a bug using JDBC interpreter, please create a [JIRA](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN) ticket.
