docs/interpreter/markdown.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Markdown Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Markdown is a plain text formatting syntax designed so that it can be converted to HTML. Apache Zeppelin uses markdown4j."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Markdown Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview
[Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) is a plain text formatting syntax designed so that it can be converted to HTML.
Apache Zeppelin uses [markdown4j](https://github.com/jdcasey/markdown4j) and [pegdown](https://github.com/sirthias/pegdown) as markdown parsers.

In Zeppelin notebook, you can use ` %md ` in the beginning of a paragraph to invoke the Markdown interpreter and generate static html from Markdown plain text.

In Zeppelin, Markdown interpreter is enabled by default and uses the [markdown4j](https://github.com/jdcasey/markdown4j) parser.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-interpreter-setting.png" width="60%" />

## Configuration
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>markdown.parser.type</td>
    <td>markdown4j</td>
    <td>Markdown Parser Type. <br/> Available values: markdown4j, pegdown.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Example

The following example demonstrates the basic usage of Markdown in a Zeppelin notebook.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example.png" width="70%" />

### Markdown4j Parser

`markdown4j` parser provides [YUML](http://yuml.me/) and [Websequence](https://www.websequencediagrams.com/) extensions 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example-markdown4j-parser.png" width="70%" />

### Pegdown Parser

`pegdown` parser provides github flavored markdown.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example-pegdown-parser.png" width="70%" />

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-777] Math formula support
### What is this PR for?
This PR adds support for formatting math formula formatting in %html display system using MathJax library.

### What type of PR is it?
Feature

### Todos
* [x] - Format math formula with MathJax library

### What is the Jira issue?
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-777

### How should this be tested?
try run following codes.
```
%md
When \\(a \\ne 0\\), there are two solutions to \\(ax^2 + bx + c = 0\\) and they are
$$x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a}.$$
```
Note MathJax works better with `markdown.parser.type` property set `pegdown`, in markdown interpreter. With default markdown4j parser, some formula is not well displayed. (for example, ax^2) I think this will not be a big problem because of we'll remove markdown4j https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/1594

```
%sh echo -e "%html \$\$a = b\$\$"
```

```
%spark println("%html $$b = c$$")
```

### Screenshots (if appropriate)
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1540981/20040864/3b69c540-a414-11e6-8f8a-fdf7ee1370a6.png)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? yes
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? yes

Author: Lee moon soo <moon@apache.org>

Closes #1606 from Leemoonsoo/ZEPPELIN-777 and squashes the following commits:

af8e079 [Lee moon soo] Package MathJax resources
2afedde [Lee moon soo] Fix typo
dd02bec [Lee moon soo] Add doc for mathmetical expression
174d7ad [Lee moon soo] Add license
bb762c3 [Lee moon soo] Format formula using MathJax

docs/interpreter/markdown.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Markdown Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin"
description: "Markdown is a plain text formatting syntax designed so that it can be converted to HTML. Apache Zeppelin uses markdown4j."
group: interpreter
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Markdown Interpreter for Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Overview
[Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) is a plain text formatting syntax designed so that it can be converted to HTML.
Apache Zeppelin uses [markdown4j](https://github.com/jdcasey/markdown4j) and [pegdown](https://github.com/sirthias/pegdown) as markdown parsers.

In Zeppelin notebook, you can use ` %md ` in the beginning of a paragraph to invoke the Markdown interpreter and generate static html from Markdown plain text.

In Zeppelin, Markdown interpreter is enabled by default and uses the [markdown4j](https://github.com/jdcasey/markdown4j) parser.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-interpreter-setting.png" width="60%" />

## Configuration
<table class="table-configuration">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Default Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>markdown.parser.type</td>
    <td>markdown4j</td>
    <td>Markdown Parser Type. <br/> Available values: markdown4j, pegdown.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Example

The following example demonstrates the basic usage of Markdown in a Zeppelin notebook.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example.png" width="70%" />

## Mathematical expression

Markdown interpreter leverages %html display system internally. That means you can mix mathematical expressions with markdown syntax. For more information, please see [Mathematical Expression](../displaysystem/basicdisplaysystem.html#mathematical-expressions) section.



### Markdown4j Parser

`markdown4j` parser provides [YUML](http://yuml.me/) and [Websequence](https://www.websequencediagrams.com/) extensions 

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example-markdown4j-parser.png" width="70%" />

### Pegdown Parser

`pegdown` parser provides github flavored markdown.

<img src="../assets/themes/zeppelin/img/docs-img/markdown-example-pegdown-parser.png" width="70%" />
