contribution/contributions.md, before:

---
layout: sideMenu
title: "Contributions"
description: ""
menu: nav-contrib
group: nav-contrib
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Contribution Guidelines

**Apache Zeppelin** is an [Apache2 License](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) Software.

Contributing to Zeppelin (Source code, Documents, Image, Website) means you agree to the Apache2 License.

1. Make sure your issue is not already in the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN)
2. If not, create a ticket describing the change you're proposing in the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN)
3. Contribute your patch via Pull Request on our [Github Mirror](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin).

Before you start, please read the [Code of Conduct](http://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html) carefully, familiarize yourself with it and refer to it whenever you need it.

For those of you who are not familiar with Apache project, understanding [How it works](http://www.apache.org/foundation/how-it-works.html) would be quite helpful.

## Creating a Pull Request
When creating a Pull Request, you will automatically get the template below.

Filling it thoroughly can improve the speed of the review process.

    ### What is this PR for?
    A few sentences describing the overall goals of the pull request's commits.
    First time? Check out the contribution guidelines - https://zeppelin.apache.org/contribute.html

    ### What type of PR is it?
    [Bug Fix | Improvement | Feature | Documentation | Hot Fix | Refactoring]

    ### Todos
    * [ ] - Task

    ### What is the Jira issue?
    * Open an issue on Jira https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN/
    * Put link here, and add [ZEPPELIN-*Jira number*] in PR title, eg. [ZEPPELIN-533]

    ### How should this be tested?
    Outline the steps to test the PR here.

    ### Screenshots (if appropriate)

    ### Questions:
    * Does the licenses files need update?
    * Is there breaking changes for older versions?
    * Does this needs documentation?

## Testing a Pull Request
You can also test and review a particular Pull Request. Here are two useful ways.

* Using a utility provided from Zeppelin.

    ```
    dev/test_zeppelin_pr.py [# of PR]
    ```

    For example, if you want to test `#513`, then the command will be:

    ```
    dev/test_zeppelin_pr.py 513
    ```

* Another way is using [github/hub](https://github.com/github/hub).

    ```
    hub checkout https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/[# of PR]
    ```

The above two methods will help you test and review Pull Requests.

## Source Control Workflow
Zeppelin follows [Fork & Pull] (https://github.com/sevntu-checkstyle/sevntu.checkstyle/wiki/Development-workflow-with-Git:-Fork,-Branching,-Commits,-and-Pull-Request) model.

## The Review Process

When a Pull Request is submitted, it is being merged or rejected by the  following review process.

* Anybody can be a reviewer and may comment on the change or suggest modifications.
* Reviewer can indicate that a patch looks suitable for merging with a comment such as: "Looks good", "LGTM", "+1".
* At least one indication of suitability (e.g. "LGTM") from a committer is required to be merged.
* Pull request is open for 1 or 2 days for potential additional review, unless it's got enough indication of suitability.
* A committer can then initiate lazy consensus ("Merge if there is no more discussion") after what the code can be merged after a certain time (normally 24 hours) if there is no more reviews.
* Contributors can ping reviewers (including committers) by commenting 'Ready to review' or suitable indication.

## Becoming a Committer

The PMC adds new committers from the active contributors, based on their contribution to Zeppelin.

The qualifications for new committers include:

1. Sustained contributions: Committers should have a history of constant contributions to Zeppelin.
2. Quality of contributions: Committers more than any other community member should submit simple, well-tested, and well-designed patches.
3. Community involvement: Committers should have a constructive and friendly attitude in all community interactions. They should also be active on the dev, user list and reviewing patches. Also help new contributors and users.


## Setting up
Here are some things you will need to build and test Zeppelin.

### Software Configuration Management (SCM)

Zeppelin uses Git for its SCM system. so you'll need git client installed in your development machine.

### Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

You are free to use whatever IDE you prefer, or your favorite command line editor.

### Project Structure

Zeppelin project is based on Maven. Maven works by convention & defines [directory structure] (https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-standard-directory-layout.html) for a project.
The top-level pom.xml describes the basic project structure. Currently Zeppelin has the following modules.

    <module>zeppelin-interpreter</module>
    <module>zeppelin-zengine</module>
    <module>spark</module>
    <module>markdown</module>
    <module>angular</module>
    <module>shell</module>
    <module>flink</module>
    <module>ignite</module>
    <module>lens</module>
    <module>cassandra</module>
    <module>zeppelin-web</module>
    <module>zeppelin-server</module>
    <module>zeppelin-distribution</module>

### Code convention
We are following Google Code style:

* [Java style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html)
* [Shell style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml)

There are some plugins to format, lint your code in IDE (use [_tools/checkstyle.xml](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/tree/master/_tools) as rules)

* [Checkstyle plugin for Intellij](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/1065) ([Setting Guide](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/26955766/intellij-idea-checkstyle))
* [Checkstyle plugin for Eclipse](http://eclipse-cs.sourceforge.net/#!/) ([Setting Guide](http://eclipse-cs.sourceforge.net/#!/project-setup))

Checkstyle report location is in `${submodule}/target/site/checkstyle.html`
Test coverage report location is in `${submodule}/target/site/cobertura/index.html`

## Getting the source code
First of all, you need the Zeppelin source code.

The official location for Zeppelin is [http://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git](http://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git).

### git access

Get the source code on your development machine using git.

```
git clone git://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git zeppelin
```

You may also want to develop against a specific branch. For example, for branch-0.5.6

```
git clone -b branch-0.5.6 git://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git zeppelin
```

or with write access

```
git clone https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/zeppelin.git
```

### Fork repository

If you want not only build Zeppelin but also make change, then you need fork [Zeppelin github mirror repository](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin) and make a pull request.


## Build

### Build Tools

To build the code, install

 * Oracle Java 7
 * Apache Maven

### Building the code

```
mvn install
```

To skip test

```
mvn install -DskipTests
```

To build with specific spark / hadoop version

```
mvn install -Phadoop-2.2 -Dhadoop.version=2.2.0 -Pspark-1.3 -Dspark.version=1.3.0
```

## Tests
Each new File should have its own accompanying unit tests. Each new interpreter should have come with its tests.


Zeppelin has 3 types of tests:

* __Unit Tests:__ The unit tests run as part of each package's build. E.g. SparkInterpeter Module's unit test is SparkInterpreterTest
* __Integration Tests:__ The integration tests run after all modules are build. The integration tests launch an instance of Zeppelin server. ZeppelinRestApiTest is an example integration test.
* __GUI integration tests:__ These tests validate the Zeppelin UI elements. These tests require a running Zeppelin server and launches a web browser to validate Notebook UI elements like Notes and their execution. See ZeppelinIT as an example.

Currently the __GUI integration tests__ are not run in the Maven and are only run in the CI environment when the pull request is submitted to github.

Make sure to watch the [CI results] (https://travis-ci.org/apache/zeppelin/pull_requests) for your pull request.

#### Running GUI integration tests locally

##### All tests, just like the CI:

```
PATH=~/Applications/Firefox.app/Contents/MacOS/:$PATH CI="true" mvn verify -Pspark-1.6 -Phadoop-2.3 -Ppyspark -B -pl "zeppelin-interpreter,zeppelin-zengine,zeppelin-server,zeppelin-display,spark-dependencies,spark" -Dtest="org.apache.zeppelin.AbstractFunctionalSuite" -DfailIfNoTests=false
```

##### Next to a Running instance of Zeppelin

This allows you to target a specific __GUI integration test__.

```
TEST_SELENIUM="true" mvn package -DfailIfNoTests=false -pl 'zeppelin-interpreter,zeppelin-zengine,zeppelin-server' -Dtest=ParagraphActionsIT
```

## Continuous Integration

Zeppelin uses Travis for CI. In the project root there is .travis.yml that configures CI and [publishes CI results] (https://travis-ci.org/apache/zeppelin/builds)


## Run Zeppelin server in development mode

```
cd zeppelin-server
HADOOP_HOME=YOUR_HADOOP_HOME JAVA_HOME=YOUR_JAVA_HOME mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="org.apache.zeppelin.server.ZeppelinServer" -Dexec.args=""
```

or use daemon script

```
bin/zeppelin-daemon start
```

Server will be run on http://localhost:8080

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-2123] [WEBSITE] Add setting up travis in the contribution guide
### What is this PR for?
Add setting up travis ci in the contribution guide

### What type of PR is it?
Documentation

### Todos
* [x] - Add setting up travis

### What is the Jira issue?
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-2123

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? no
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? no

Author: Lee moon soo <moon@apache.org>

Closes #2030 from Leemoonsoo/gh-pages-ZEPPELIN-2123 and squashes the following commits:

32bc13d [Lee moon soo] Add setting up travis in the contribution guide

contribution/contributions.md, after:

---
layout: sideMenu
title: "Contributions"
description: ""
menu: nav-contrib
group: nav-contrib
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Contribution Guidelines

**Apache Zeppelin** is an [Apache2 License](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) Software.

Contributing to Zeppelin (Source code, Documents, Image, Website) means you agree to the Apache2 License.

1. Make sure your issue is not already in the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN)
2. If not, create a ticket describing the change you're proposing in the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN)
3. Setup travis [Continuous Integration](#continuous-integration)
4. Contribute your patch via Pull Request on our [Github Mirror](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin).

Before you start, please read the [Code of Conduct](http://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html) carefully, familiarize yourself with it and refer to it whenever you need it.

For those of you who are not familiar with Apache project, understanding [How it works](http://www.apache.org/foundation/how-it-works.html) would be quite helpful.

## Creating a Pull Request
When creating a Pull Request, you will automatically get the template below.

Filling it thoroughly can improve the speed of the review process.

    ### What is this PR for?
    A few sentences describing the overall goals of the pull request's commits.
    First time? Check out the contribution guidelines - https://zeppelin.apache.org/contribute.html

    ### What type of PR is it?
    [Bug Fix | Improvement | Feature | Documentation | Hot Fix | Refactoring]

    ### Todos
    * [ ] - Task

    ### What is the Jira issue?
    * Open an issue on Jira https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN/
    * Put link here, and add [ZEPPELIN-*Jira number*] in PR title, eg. [ZEPPELIN-533]

    ### How should this be tested?
    Outline the steps to test the PR here.

    ### Screenshots (if appropriate)

    ### Questions:
    * Does the licenses files need update?
    * Is there breaking changes for older versions?
    * Does this needs documentation?

## Testing a Pull Request
You can also test and review a particular Pull Request. Here are two useful ways.

* Using a utility provided from Zeppelin.

    ```
    dev/test_zeppelin_pr.py [# of PR]
    ```

    For example, if you want to test `#513`, then the command will be:

    ```
    dev/test_zeppelin_pr.py 513
    ```

* Another way is using [github/hub](https://github.com/github/hub).

    ```
    hub checkout https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/[# of PR]
    ```

The above two methods will help you test and review Pull Requests.

## Source Control Workflow
Zeppelin follows [Fork & Pull] (https://github.com/sevntu-checkstyle/sevntu.checkstyle/wiki/Development-workflow-with-Git:-Fork,-Branching,-Commits,-and-Pull-Request) model.

## The Review Process

When a Pull Request is submitted, it is being merged or rejected by the  following review process.

* Anybody can be a reviewer and may comment on the change or suggest modifications.
* Reviewer can indicate that a patch looks suitable for merging with a comment such as: "Looks good", "LGTM", "+1".
* At least one indication of suitability (e.g. "LGTM") from a committer is required to be merged.
* Pull request is open for 1 or 2 days for potential additional review, unless it's got enough indication of suitability.
* A committer can then initiate lazy consensus ("Merge if there is no more discussion") after what the code can be merged after a certain time (normally 24 hours) if there is no more reviews.
* Contributors can ping reviewers (including committers) by commenting 'Ready to review' or suitable indication.

## Becoming a Committer

The PMC adds new committers from the active contributors, based on their contribution to Zeppelin.

The qualifications for new committers include:

1. Sustained contributions: Committers should have a history of constant contributions to Zeppelin.
2. Quality of contributions: Committers more than any other community member should submit simple, well-tested, and well-designed patches.
3. Community involvement: Committers should have a constructive and friendly attitude in all community interactions. They should also be active on the dev, user list and reviewing patches. Also help new contributors and users.


## Setting up
Here are some things you will need to build and test Zeppelin.

### Software Configuration Management (SCM)

Zeppelin uses Git for its SCM system. so you'll need git client installed in your development machine.

### Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

You are free to use whatever IDE you prefer, or your favorite command line editor.

### Project Structure

Zeppelin project is based on Maven. Maven works by convention & defines [directory structure] (https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-standard-directory-layout.html) for a project.
The top-level pom.xml describes the basic project structure. Currently Zeppelin has the following modules.

    <module>zeppelin-interpreter</module>
    <module>zeppelin-zengine</module>
    <module>spark</module>
    <module>markdown</module>
    <module>angular</module>
    <module>shell</module>
    <module>flink</module>
    <module>ignite</module>
    <module>lens</module>
    <module>cassandra</module>
    <module>zeppelin-web</module>
    <module>zeppelin-server</module>
    <module>zeppelin-distribution</module>

### Code convention
We are following Google Code style:

* [Java style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html)
* [Shell style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml)

There are some plugins to format, lint your code in IDE (use [_tools/checkstyle.xml](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/tree/master/_tools) as rules)

* [Checkstyle plugin for Intellij](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/1065) ([Setting Guide](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/26955766/intellij-idea-checkstyle))
* [Checkstyle plugin for Eclipse](http://eclipse-cs.sourceforge.net/#!/) ([Setting Guide](http://eclipse-cs.sourceforge.net/#!/project-setup))

Checkstyle report location is in `${submodule}/target/site/checkstyle.html`
Test coverage report location is in `${submodule}/target/site/cobertura/index.html`

## Getting the source code
First of all, you need the Zeppelin source code.

The official location for Zeppelin is [http://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git](http://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git).

### git access

Get the source code on your development machine using git.

```
git clone git://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git zeppelin
```

You may also want to develop against a specific branch. For example, for branch-0.5.6

```
git clone -b branch-0.5.6 git://git.apache.org/zeppelin.git zeppelin
```

or with write access

```
git clone https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/zeppelin.git
```

### Fork repository

If you want not only build Zeppelin but also make change, then you need fork [Zeppelin github mirror repository](https://github.com/apache/zeppelin) and make a pull request.


## Build

### Build Tools

To build the code, install

 * Oracle Java 7
 * Apache Maven

### Building the code

```
mvn install
```

To skip test

```
mvn install -DskipTests
```

To build with specific spark / hadoop version

```
mvn install -Phadoop-2.2 -Dhadoop.version=2.2.0 -Pspark-1.3 -Dspark.version=1.3.0
```

## Tests
Each new File should have its own accompanying unit tests. Each new interpreter should have come with its tests.


Zeppelin has 3 types of tests:

* __Unit Tests:__ The unit tests run as part of each package's build. E.g. SparkInterpeter Module's unit test is SparkInterpreterTest
* __Integration Tests:__ The integration tests run after all modules are build. The integration tests launch an instance of Zeppelin server. ZeppelinRestApiTest is an example integration test.
* __GUI integration tests:__ These tests validate the Zeppelin UI elements. These tests require a running Zeppelin server and launches a web browser to validate Notebook UI elements like Notes and their execution. See ZeppelinIT as an example.

Currently the __GUI integration tests__ are not run in the Maven and are only run in the CI environment when the pull request is submitted to github.

Make sure to watch the [CI results] (https://travis-ci.org/apache/zeppelin/pull_requests) for your pull request.

#### Running GUI integration tests locally

##### All tests, just like the CI:

```
PATH=~/Applications/Firefox.app/Contents/MacOS/:$PATH CI="true" mvn verify -Pspark-1.6 -Phadoop-2.3 -Ppyspark -B -pl "zeppelin-interpreter,zeppelin-zengine,zeppelin-server,zeppelin-display,spark-dependencies,spark" -Dtest="org.apache.zeppelin.AbstractFunctionalSuite" -DfailIfNoTests=false
```

##### Next to a Running instance of Zeppelin

This allows you to target a specific __GUI integration test__.

```
TEST_SELENIUM="true" mvn package -DfailIfNoTests=false -pl 'zeppelin-interpreter,zeppelin-zengine,zeppelin-server' -Dtest=ParagraphActionsIT
```

## Continuous Integration

Zeppelin project's CI system will collect information from pull request author's travis-ci and display status in the pull request.

Each individual contributor should setup travis-ci for the fork before making a pullrequest. Go to [https://travis-ci.org/profile](https://travis-ci.org/profile) and switch on 'zeppelin' repository.


## Run Zeppelin server in development mode

```
cd zeppelin-server
HADOOP_HOME=YOUR_HADOOP_HOME JAVA_HOME=YOUR_JAVA_HOME mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="org.apache.zeppelin.server.ZeppelinServer" -Dexec.args=""
```

or use daemon script

```
bin/zeppelin-daemon start
```

Server will be run on http://localhost:8080
