contribution/webapplication.md, before:

---
layout: sideMenu
title: "Web Application"
description: ""
group:
- nav-contrib
- nav-contrib-front
menu: nav-contrib-front
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Contributing to Zeppelin-Web

## Dev Mode
When working on Zeppelin's WebApplication, it is recommended to run in dev mode.

For that, start Zeppelin server normally, then use ``./grunt serve`` in _zeppelin-web_ directory.

This will launch a Zeppelin WebApplication on port **9000** that will update on code changes.

## Technologies

Zeppelin WebApplication is using **AngularJS** as main Framework, and **Grunt** and **Bower** as helpers.

So you might want to get familiar with it.
[Here is a good start](http://www.sitepoint.com/kickstart-your-angularjs-development-with-yeoman-grunt-and-bower/)
(There is obviously plenty more ressources to learn)

## Good Practices

On the side menu of this page, you will find documentation about some of the best practices we want to apply
in this project.

This is a great way for people to learn more about angularJS, and to keep the code clean and optimized.

Please try to follow those __Good Practices Guides__ when making a PR or reviewing one.

## Coding style

* We follow mainly the [Google Javascript Guide](https://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javascriptguide.xml)
* We use a 2 spaces indentation
* We use single quotes

But don't worry, Eslint and Jscs will make you remember it for the most part.

We try not to have **JQuery except in directives**, If you want to include a library,
please search for its **angularJS** directive first.

If you still need to use it, then please use ``angular.element()`` instead of ``$()``

## Folder Structure & Code Organization

* `src` folder: Contains the Source code for Zeppelin WebApplication
* `dist` folder: Contains the compiled code after using **grunt build**

### Src and Code Organization

The `src` folder is organized as such:

<pre>
 src/
 ├──  app/
 │   ├──  name/
 │   │    ├──  name.controller.js
 |   |    ├──  name.html
 |   |    ├──  subComponent1/
 |   |    |    ├──  subComponent1.html
 |   |    |    ├──  subComponent1.css
 │   |    |    └──  subComponent1.controller.js
 │   │    └──  name.css
 │   └──  app.js
 ├──  assets/
 │   ├──  images/
 │   └──  styles/
 |        ├──  looknfeel/
 │        └──  printMode.css
 ├──  components/
 │   ├──  component1/
 |   |    ├──  component1.html
 │   |    └──  component1.controller.js
 │   └──  component2/
 ├──  fonts/
 |    ├──  *.{eot,svg,ttf,woff,otf}
 │    └──  *.css
 ├──  favico.ico
 ├──  index.html
 └──  404.html
</pre>

The code is now organized in a component type of architecture, where everything is logically grouped.

#### File type name convention

In order to understand what is contained inside the .js files without opening it, we use some name conventions:

* .controller.js
* .directive.js
* .service.js

### Component Architecture

When we talk about Component architecture, we think about grouping files together in a logical way.

A component can then be made of multiple files like `.html`, `.css` or any other file type mentioned above.

Related components can be grouped as sub-component as long as they are used in that component only.


#### App folder

Contains the application `app.js` and page related components.

* Home Page
* Interpreter Page
* Notebook Page
etc...

The only resctiction being that a component in the `app` folder is **not used anywhere else**

#### Components folder

The `components` folder is here to contains any reusable component (used more than once)

### Fonts

Fonts files and their css are mixed together in the `fonts` folder

## New files includes

As we do not use yeoman to generate controllers or other type of files with this new structure,
we need to do some includes manually in `index.html` in order to use dev mode and compile correctly.

* Non-bower `.js` files needs to be injected between the tag `<!-- build:js({.tmp,src}) scripts/scripts.js -->`
* Css files needs to be injected between the tag `<!-- build:css(.tmp) styles/main.css -->`

## Add plugins with Bower
```
bower install <plugin> --save
```
The file index.html will automatically update with the new bower_component

<br/>

**Example**: `./bower install angular-nvd3`

You should find that line in the index.html file
```
<script src="bower_components/angular-nvd3/dist/angular-nvd3.js"></script>
````

Commit message:

[gh-pages] update contribution/webapplication.html
### What is this PR for?
This PR is for matching current web environment.
I changed `dev mode` part from `./grunt serve` to `yarn run dev` and fixed some typo.

### What type of PR is it?
[ Documentation]

### What is the Jira issue?
* None

### How should this be tested?
* build `gh-pages` branch and then check [webapplication.html](http://localhost:4000/contribution/webapplication.html) page.

### Screenshots (if appropriate)
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8110458/22778139/2d826150-eef9-11e6-80fe-d06048982c59.png)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? No
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? No
* Does this needs documentation? Yes

Author: soralee <sora0728@zepl.com>

Closes #2000 from soralee/gh_contribute_web_dev and squashes the following commits:

3a8cb90 [soralee] modify typo and update inject part
e0c08cd [soralee] update contribute/webapplication.html

contribution/webapplication.md, after:

---
layout: sideMenu
title: "Web Application"
description: ""
group:
- nav-contrib
- nav-contrib-front
menu: nav-contrib-front
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Contributing to Zeppelin-Web

## Dev Mode
When working on Zeppelin's WebApplication, it is recommended to run in dev mode.

For that, start Zeppelin server normally, then use ``yarn run dev`` in _zeppelin-web_ directory.

This will launch a Zeppelin WebApplication on port **9000** that will update on code changes.

## Technologies

Zeppelin WebApplication is using **AngularJS** as main Framework, and **Grunt** and **Bower** as helpers.

So you might want to get familiar with it.
[Here is a good start](http://www.sitepoint.com/kickstart-your-angularjs-development-with-yeoman-grunt-and-bower/)
(There is obviously plenty more ressources to learn)

## Good Practices

On the side menu of this page, you will find documentation about some of the best practices we want to apply
in this project.

This is a great way for people to learn more about angularJS, and to keep the code clean and optimized.

Please try to follow those __Good Practices Guides__ when making a PR or reviewing one.

## Coding style

* We follow mainly the [Google Javascript Guide](https://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javascriptguide.xml)
* We use a 2 spaces indentation
* We use single quotes

But don't worry, Eslint and Jscs will make you remember it for the most part.

We try not to have **JQuery except in directives**, If you want to include a library,
please search for its **angularJS** directive first.

If you still need to use it, then please use ``angular.element()`` instead of ``$()``

## Folder Structure & Code Organization

* `src` folder: Contains the Source code for Zeppelin WebApplication
* `dist` folder: Contains the compiled code after using **yarn run build**

### Src and Code Organization

The `src` folder is organized as such:

<pre>
 src/
 ├──  app/
 │   ├──  name/
 │   │    ├──  name.controller.js
 |   |    ├──  name.html
 |   |    ├──  subComponent1/
 |   |    |    ├──  subComponent1.html
 |   |    |    ├──  subComponent1.css
 │   |    |    └──  subComponent1.controller.js
 │   │    └──  name.css
 │   ├──  app.js
 │   └──  app.controller.js
 ├──  assets/
 │   ├──  images/
 │   └──  styles/
 |        ├──  looknfeel/
 │        └──  printMode.css
 ├──  components/
 │   ├──  component1/
 |   |    ├──  component1.html
 │   |    └──  component1.controller.js
 │   └──  component2/
 ├──  fonts/
 |    ├──  *.{eot,svg,ttf,woff,otf}
 │    └──  *.css
 ├──  favicon.ico
 ├──  index.html
 ├──  index.js
 └──  404.html
</pre>

The code is now organized in a component type of architecture, where everything is logically grouped.

#### File type name convention

In order to understand what is contained inside the .js files without opening it, we use some name conventions:

* .controller.js
* .directive.js
* .service.js

### Component Architecture

When we talk about Component architecture, we think about grouping files together in a logical way.

A component can then be made of multiple files like `.html`, `.css` or any other file type mentioned above.

Related components can be grouped as sub-component as long as they are used in that component only.


#### App folder

Contains the application `app.js` and page related components.

* Home Page
* Interpreter Page
* Notebook Page
etc...

The only restriction being that a component in the `app` folder is **not used anywhere else**

#### Components folder

The `components` folder is here to contains any reusable component (used more than once)

### Fonts

Fonts files and their css are mixed together in the `fonts` folder

## New files includes

As we do not use yeoman to generate controllers or other type of files with this new structure,
we need to do some includes manually in `index.html` in order to use dev mode and compile correctly.

* Non-bower `.js` files needs to be injected between the tag `<!-- build:js({.tmp,src}) scripts/scripts.js -->`
* Css files needs to be injected between the tag `<!-- build:css(.tmp) styles/main.css -->`

## Add plugins with Bower
```
bower install <plugin> --save
```
The file index.html will automatically update with the new bower_component

<br/>

**Example**: `./bower install angular-nvd3`

You should find that line in the index.html file
```
<script src="bower_components/angular-nvd3/dist/angular-nvd3.js"></script>
````
