docs/displaysystem/basicdisplaysystem.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Basic Display System in Apache Zeppelin"
description: "There are 3 basic display systems in Apache Zeppelin. By default, Zeppelin prints interpreter responce as a plain text using text display system. With %html directive, Zeppelin treats your output as HTML. You can also simply use %table display system to leverage Zeppelin's built in visualization."
group: display
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Basic Display System in Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Text

By default, Apache Zeppelin prints interpreter response as a plain text using `text` display system.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_text.png" />

You can explicitly say you're using `text` display system.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_text1.png" />

## Html

With `%html` directive, Zeppelin treats your output as HTML

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_html.png" />

## Table

If you have data that row separated by '\n' (newline) and column separated by '\t' (tab) with first row as header row, for example

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table.png" />

You can simply use `%table` display system to leverage Zeppelin's built in visualization.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table1.png" />

If table contents start with `%html`, it is interpreted as an HTML.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table_html.png" />

> **Note :** Display system is backend independent.

Commit message:

[ZEPPELIN-777] Math formula support
### What is this PR for?
This PR adds support for formatting math formula formatting in %html display system using MathJax library.

### What type of PR is it?
Feature

### Todos
* [x] - Format math formula with MathJax library

### What is the Jira issue?
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZEPPELIN-777

### How should this be tested?
try run following codes.
```
%md
When \\(a \\ne 0\\), there are two solutions to \\(ax^2 + bx + c = 0\\) and they are
$$x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a}.$$
```
Note MathJax works better with `markdown.parser.type` property set `pegdown`, in markdown interpreter. With default markdown4j parser, some formula is not well displayed. (for example, ax^2) I think this will not be a big problem because of we'll remove markdown4j https://github.com/apache/zeppelin/pull/1594

```
%sh echo -e "%html \$\$a = b\$\$"
```

```
%spark println("%html $$b = c$$")
```

### Screenshots (if appropriate)
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1540981/20040864/3b69c540-a414-11e6-8f8a-fdf7ee1370a6.png)

### Questions:
* Does the licenses files need update? yes
* Is there breaking changes for older versions? no
* Does this needs documentation? yes

Author: Lee moon soo <moon@apache.org>

Closes #1606 from Leemoonsoo/ZEPPELIN-777 and squashes the following commits:

af8e079 [Lee moon soo] Package MathJax resources
2afedde [Lee moon soo] Fix typo
dd02bec [Lee moon soo] Add doc for mathmetical expression
174d7ad [Lee moon soo] Add license
bb762c3 [Lee moon soo] Format formula using MathJax

docs/displaysystem/basicdisplaysystem.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Basic Display System in Apache Zeppelin"
description: "There are 3 basic display systems in Apache Zeppelin. By default, Zeppelin prints interpreter responce as a plain text using text display system. With %html directive, Zeppelin treats your output as HTML. You can also simply use %table display system to leverage Zeppelin's built in visualization."
group: display
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->
{% include JB/setup %}

# Basic Display System in Apache Zeppelin

<div id="toc"></div>

## Text

By default, Apache Zeppelin prints interpreter response as a plain text using `text` display system.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_text.png" />

You can explicitly say you're using `text` display system.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_text1.png" />

## Html

With `%html` directive, Zeppelin treats your output as HTML

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_html.png" />

### Mathematical expressions
HTML display system automatically formats mathematical expression using [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org/). You can use
`\\( INLINE EXPRESSION \\)` and `$$ EXPRESSION $$` to format. For example

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_formula.png" />


## Table

If you have data that row separated by '\n' (newline) and column separated by '\t' (tab) with first row as header row, for example

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table.png" />

You can simply use `%table` display system to leverage Zeppelin's built in visualization.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table1.png" />

If table contents start with `%html`, it is interpreted as an HTML.

<img src="/assets/themes/zeppelin/img/screenshots/display_table_html.png" />

> **Note :** Display system is backend independent.
